a) "Critical path" is a term associated with a variant of the original GOMS-model, CPM-GOMS. 
CPM does not only stand for "Critical-Path-Method", a project development method, but also "Cognitive Perceptual Motor", referring to the different types of operators used in this GOMS-model.
Contrary to the original GOMS-model, CPM-GOMS can model multitasking, making it more precise, but also more costly in regards to the work one has to put in.
The critical path is the sequence of activities in a GOMS-process which takes the most time to complete. 
Therefore the critical path describes the total time needed to complete a given task.

b) Why might the original KLM not perfectly model input performance on a laptop? How could it be adapted?
The main difference in input performance of using a laptop compared to workstation is probably the usage of the touchpad instead of a mouse. As the pointing with a touchpad is not as precise as using a mouse, the 'pointing' operator's value is probably bigger or at least different than stated in the original KLM. Therefore the value would have to be determined again for usage with a touchpad. Additionally, while pointing with a touchpad the finger might need to be repositioned, depending on the cursor speed and the screen size of the laptop. In contrast, pointing with a mouse can in most cases be done in one motion/action. So this would need futher adjustment of the original 'pointing' operator. Furthermore the switch between keyboard and mouse is quite different from switching between keyboard and touchpad as the distance is probably smaller while the target area is bigger. So the 'homing' operator's value would have to be adjusted as well. Moreover, with newer laptops you don't have to really click a button but rather slightly touch the touchpad. This probably leads to a different value for the 'button click' operator than stated in the original KLM and needs adjustment. Additionally, most touchpads support gestures which allow for completely new operators or combine multiple operators into one. Therefore these values would again have to be determined or calculated by adding up existing operators.
